Let us start by remembering the goal.
The goal is to create value innovation.
It is this concept that introduces
the Blue Ocean Strategy book, which
is to offer more value to customers
at a lower cost for the company.
A lower cost for the company
does not have to be a lower price.
What we will do is reduce the cost
structure and if we want to we
can impact that, that cost drop
and offer a lower price than
competitors, but it doesn’
t have to be so.
We can offer the same price and
increase the margins, or
we could even raise prices
and if we offer much more
value, we could raise prices.
Really the innovation in value is
that it sounds so very simple, it
is very difficult to and, in addition,
if we realize, it is contradictory
with all the strategy
and with all the knowledge,
even with the business
logic so far.
Remember what we studied
at The Power MBA in the course
of competitive strategies, we
saw Michael Porter’
s generic strategies.
What does Porter say?
It tells us that we have to choose
between seeking differentiation, that
is, investing more to offer more
value and raise prices, or being
a cost leader.
Choosing is the key word.
However, the Blue Ocean strategy
tells us that we can look for both
and approaches at the same time.
We can offer more value to customers
by reducing the cost for the
company.
Another way to see it is from the
value curve.
Let’s think that this is the
value curve of your sector.
If you choose a differentiation strategy,
what you usually do is invest
in all the competitive
factors you invest the most.
You think you have a restaurant.
If you have a restaurant and you want
to offer more value, because
imagine, you want to increase the
value you are offering because a
new one has emerged What are you doing?
Because you redecorate the local,
contract more service, hire a better
cook, etc., and offer more value,
but it always comes with more
cost, as we are seeing in the
curve.
Or, on the contrary, a company
that decides to opt for
a low cost strategy, of lowering
prices, what it does is
reduce costs, but also offers
a lower value to its customers.
And the Blue Ocean strategy tells
us that we have to overcome this
and that we have to think,
or at least try, to offer value
innovation.
The curve of value could be done
like this.
In some factors we are offering
much more value and in other
factors what we have done is to
reduce the cost a lot.
And how will we do it?
Well, we’ll do it through
a tool called the RISE matrix,
or RAIS matrix, if we
say it in English.
And this matrix, this model, is very
simple, but helps to think.
It will help you think.
You always have to start from
the value curve and we will use
the RISE matrix to go making
our modifications.
And how does it work?
RISE is the acronym for
reducing, increasing,
eliminating and creating.
On the one hand, the goal
was to reduce costs, costs
for the company.
And how do we do it?
We do this through the blocks
that are in green, which are to
reduce, eliminate.
What we will do is to competitive
or variable factors of those
that are, of the usual in
our industry.
We will be very brave and
some will reduce them very much.
We will de-invest a lot in some
of the factors and some of them
we will even eliminate.
This is often scary because when
everyone in your industry offers
something and you suddenly
decide that you will either offer
a lot less of that value, you
will disinvest a lot or you
will directly eliminate it.
Well, it seems to be very
scary.
But what is the consequence?
The result of what you will is
that you will reduce the costs
for the company enormously.
Let me give you an example,
Mercadona.
Mercadona decided to reduce the number
of brands it offered.
All supermarkets competed in having
a wide variety of brands and
Mercadona decided to reduce it.
It was a brave decision and we
could put it on the quadrante to
reduce and that helped to lower
costs.
We have already reduced
How can we increase
the value?
We will this by increasing
the value offered in some
of the factors and what is
the most difficult of all, identifying,
this is not always possible,
but by identifying some
additional factors, values
that your industry,
your competition has never
raised.
Therefore, by increasing and creating
what we is to increase
much the perceived value, the
value offered to customers.
In the end we would have a curve like
the one we have seen before, in
which we have a series of factors
in which we offer much more value
and others much more value and
also we have invested more in
those factors and others in which
we have deinvested a lot and
offer a lower value, but we transfer
it to a lower cost for the
company.
As you can see, the recent matrix
helps us from the industry’s
value curve, helps us to think about
what factors we have to reduce,
which factors we could eliminate,
what factors we could increase
value a lot and if we are able
to create some additional value
that no one has thought,
because what competitive
factors we can create,
we can add to the value proposal.